Hi there.
This is the De La Rue.
Now back to something fundamental.
I just want to add a new comment to local variables coping.
We discuss variable scope in the language basic series in the introductory part of the course and the
lecture there also had the same title variable scope.
There we mentioned that a local variable cannot be shadowed and there is an exception to that statement.
Local variables can be shadowed by variables in a nested class, which can be either an anonymous class
or a local class.
As both of these classes can be declared within a method.
However, the shadow local variables cannot be accessed from within the nested class.
Just keep that in mind.
The shadow local variables cannot be accessed from within the nested class.
Now, this was not mentioned in that introductory lecture series as nested classes were not discussed
at that point of time.
Now, just to recap, let's look at some of the slides from that lecture.
A local variable is accessible from the point of declaration to the end of its block, where a block
can be a method or a constructor or a control flow statement.
Now, here is an example from that same lecture.
Here we have the method fu and the method parameter is P and we can see the scope of P.
And similarly we have the statement and x is equal to zero.
Here X is a local variable and we also can see its scope.
It can also be used in the declaration.
Right next to it.
Right.
And Z is equal to X.
Now within the F block there we can see that we are trying to re declare the variable x and that's not
possible because a local variable cannot be shadowed.
There is already a local variable and that cannot be shadowed by re declaring it in this way.
Right.
So that's the point.
And here is another example where we are trying to shadow a local variable.
So we are trying to re declare it in the first loop in the initialization statement instead of the far
loop.
If we had a nested class then it is possible to re declare x so we can shadow it.
Now this is the example about shadowing a class level variable and we know that here index is equal
to ten is an instance variable and within the method foo we are shadowing it and in order to access
the instance variable within the method, we have to use this reference like in the last statement.
Now if X was instead of an instance variable, if it was a static variable, then we would use the class
name.
Right, and we would use the class name to access X.
So that's about it.
But let's just head over to my editor and we will look at the example that we have seen earlier in an
earlier lecture on local class.
And there we already shadowed we were already shadowing a local variable.
So let's look at that.
So this was the same class data translator.
You may recall it from the local class demo.
So there we had the static method get book as XML and it had these method parameters and here is the
local class.
And within the local class, as you can see, we were using the same variable names.
So we are shadowing these variables.
We are really clearing it here and we are shadowing it.
And these variables cannot be used anymore within the within the nested class, there is no way to access
them.
But if they were not shadowed, then we can use it.
And we already know that.
Now, similarly in Kashgar, we have this particular statement here where we are declaring an anonymous
cluster.
Now, let's go ahead and.
Declare a local variable count equal to zero.
So that's perfectly legal.
We can shadow a local variable.
Now, if it had been some other block, then this is not possible.
Even with lambda expressions, this would not be possible.
Instead of an anonymous class, we would have lambda expressions and lambda expressions will be discussed
later.
Even if it was a lambda expression, then we cannot shadow a local variable from within the lambda expression,
but that will be that we will look at later.
So just wanted to highlight that since it's very fundamental and that's about it.
Thank you and happy coding.